Clarify different between API Gateway and Gateway API (#2191)
kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api: site-src/index.md

organizational models and implementations while remaining a portable and
standard API.

## What's the difference between Gateway API and an API Gateway?

> A Gateway is a networking component that allows data to transfer from one

Reviewer: I think it will make it clearer:
```suggestion
The concept of a Gateway is a networking component that allows data to transfer from one
```

network to another network.

> An API Gateway is a Gateway that deals more specificially with backend services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An API Gateway is a Gateway implementation that deals more specifically with backend services
```

and routes client reqeusts to those backend services. Those services expose an
API such as HTTP, REST or some other protocol on top of TCP or UDP.

Gateway API is an interface, or set of resources, that model service networking
in Kubernetes. One of the main resources is a `Gateway`. If you implement

> Gateway API, you are a Gateway provider. A `Gateway` resource declares the

Reviewer: I think it's a little bit confusing to say "If you implement Gateway API, you are a Gateway provider", how about "As a Gateway Provider, you can implement the Gateway API to model Kubernetes service networking in an expressive, extensible, and role-oriented way." ?

Author: Thanks.
All great suggestions, which have now been incorporated

organizational models and implementations while remaining a portable and
standard API.

## What's the difference between Gateway API and an API Gateway?

The concept of a Gateway is a networking component that allows data to transfer from one
network to another network.

> 

Reviewer 2: I'd leave this section out because at least in Gateway API, Gateways don't actually need to cross networks. I think the next sentence works well as an intro to this section.

> An API Gateway is a Gateway implementation that deals more specifically with backend services

Reviewer 3: imo this doesnt quite feel right. 
I asked ChatGPT what an API Gateway was and here is its answer
<img width="669" alt="Screenshot 2023-07-20 at 10 37 58 AM" src="https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api/assets/9469142/f27baa4f-8d48-4a0f-bf39-374bc125bc91">

a suggestion would be to consider reframing this as API Gateway is a Gateway implementation that deals with Request Routing, Security and many more things like Caching, Monitoring, Transformations where as Gateway API is an interface focused on defining standards for networking and security settings associated with Ingress and the Mesh

Author: I see what you're getting at, focusing on the features.

My intention here was to distinguish between a gateway (abstract networking thing) and an API gateway (networking thing that exposes backend services via APIs).
My preference was for less detail, and let the reader do their own research on what are the detailed features an API Gateway might provide are. 

If you'd like to suggest any changes though via the github suggestion feature, that would allow others to chime in more easily too.

> An API Gateway is a Gateway implementation that deals more specifically with backend services
> and routes client reqeusts to those backend services. Those services expose an
> API such as HTTP, REST or some other protocol on top of TCP or UDP.

Reviewer 4: How about something like this?

```suggestion
An API Gateway is a general concept that describes anything that exposes capabilities of a backend service, while providing extra capabilities for traffic routing and manipulation, such as load balancing, request and response transformation, and sometimes more advanced features like authentication and authorization, rate limiting, and circuit breaking.

Most Gateway API implementations are API Gateways to some extent, but not all API Gateways are Gateway API implementations.
```

The last line may be better after the explanation of Gateway API.

> Most Gateway API implementations are API Gateways to some extent, but not all API Gateways are Gateway API implementations.

Reviewer 2: Tiny nit: Do you mind wrapping these lines at 80 chars to match the rest of the file? (I may be off on the number here, just looking for shorter lines that match the rest of the file).

> Most Gateway API implementations are API Gateways to some extent, but not all API Gateways are Gateway API implementations.

Reviewer 2: I think this particular sentence may work best at either the beginning or end of the section. That would mean we'd end up with one of the following orders:

1. An API Gateway is...
2. Gateway API is...
3. Most Gateway API implementations are API Gateways to some extent, but not all API Gateways are Gateway API implementations.

OR

1. Most Gateway API implementations are API Gateways to some extent, but not all API Gateways are Gateway API implementations.
2. An API Gateway is...
3. Gateway API is...

Author: Let's try the first

Gateway API is an interface, or set of resources, that model service networking
in Kubernetes. One of the main resources is a `Gateway`, which declares the
Gateway type (or class) to instantiate and its configuration. As a Gateway Provider,
you can implement the Gateway API to model Kubernetes service networking in an
expressive, extensible, and role-oriented way.

Some API Gateways implement Gateway API, while a lot of API Gateways provide

> their own proprietary specification for managing and configuring them.

Reviewer 2: Nit: I think this may be repeating 104 and not strictly necessary here.

## Is Gateway API a standard for API Management?

No. API Management is a much broader concept than what Gateway API aims to
be, or what an API Gateway is intended to provide.
An API Gateway can be an essential part of an API Management solution.

> Gateway API can be seen as a way to standardize on that aspect of API Management.

Reviewer 2: Both of these questions likely belong on our FAQs page. I think the first question "What's the difference between Gateway API and an API Gateway?" is common enough to belong in both places, but this one feels like it should just be on the FAQs page.

## What's the difference between Gateway API and an API Gateway?

The concept of a Gateway is a networking component that allows data to transfer from one
network to another network.

An API Gateway is a Gateway implementation that deals more specifically with backend services
and routes client reqeusts to those backend services. Those services expose an
API such as HTTP, REST or some other protocol on top of TCP or UDP.

Gateway API is an interface, or set of resources, that model service networking
in Kubernetes. One of the main resources is a `Gateway`. As a Gateway Provider,
you can implement the Gateway API to model Kubernetes service networking in an

> expressive, extensible, and role-oriented way. A `Gateway` resource declares the

Reviewer: Can we combine these two sentences into one? 
"One of the main resources is a `Gateway`"
"A `Gateway` resource declares the Gateway type (or class) to instantiate and its configuration."

For example: "One of the main resources is a `Gateway` which declares the Gateway type (or class) to instantiate and its configuration."
